workplace romance can be a tricky topic
[Music]
how do we manage the boundaries between
our personal and professional lives how
do we deal with gender and balances and
power dynamics in the workplace there's
a lot of gray area in workplace romance
I'd like to take a few minutes and
answer some of your frequently asked
questions so question 1 should I date my
coworker
it depends do you want to date your
coworker for a bit of fun do you want to
date your co-worker to hook up cuz then
you're really better off on tinder if
you want to date your co-worker because
you really sincerely think you're
falling in love with them or there's a
real great potential for a long-term
committed relationship maybe you should
date your coworkers studies show that
your coworkers are generally positive
about it if they perceive that you're
falling in love and genuinely care about
each other it's one your co-workers
sense that something else is in play
that can be disruptive question 2 should
I date my boss in almost all cases no
you should not date your boss because
now you've got a power dynamic when
there's a relationship between a boss
and subordinate it generates a lot of
negative feelings and the negative
feelings tend to fall on the person
who's lower on the totem pole people
usually assume some kind of favoritism
some kind of inside knowledge and there
can be resentment stirred up by that
there was a study published last year
that suggested dating a superior to even
have a negative impact on your career
the researchers asked third-party
evaluators online to imagine that they
work at a law firm they asked them to
make recommendations on which employee
should get picked for a special training
program and which should get promoted to
partner they looked at credentials for
imaginary employees and when it was
stated that an employee had been in
dating or was in a relationship with the
superior the evaluators were less likely
to pick that person for the training
program or the promotion even if they
had the exact same credentials as
someone who wasn't dating their boss the
evaluators were also quick to dismiss
their accomplishments
question 3 can I date someone who
reports to me still a big no you may not
feel like you're really in the boss
right but you are and there's a power
dynamic
that's simply not there for other
couples if you really believe there is a
sincere honestly felt personal
connection that would be lasting and
meaningful one of you may need to move
and it shouldn't always be the person
who's lower in the company pecking order
question 4 I've just started seeing a
co-worker how do we handle things okay
this question a lot are they date are
they not dating don't keep it a secret
you don't have to make a big deal of it
but secrecy tends to be corrosive people
tend to see workplace couples as a
coalition or a unit so try to make it
clear to your co-workers that you're not
the same person you love each other but
you are going to disagree
question 5 why are coworkers often
attracted to each other well the obvious
answer is people tend to be attracted to
each other the more time they spend
together but there's another ingredient
that has to be added attraction tends to
happen when there's work that demands
close collaboration so imagine you have
a big group project with a tight
deadline and you're working late nights
and brainstorming ideas you look up and
across the table one of your colleagues
throws out a really great idea
you may feel something and that's
natural we call this task
interdependence
it's a ripe ground for attraction second
reason why people at work are attracted
to each other is they may often be
similar to each other as two old adages
birds of a feather flock together and
opposites attract well the psychological
research suggests birds of a feather
flock together we like people who are
like us question 6 my coworkers are
flirting I'm annoyed what do I do some
researchers argue that for people
flirting at work flirting is good and it
boosts creativity but my own research
suggests things are different for people
who are watching or who are a subjective
to the flirting it can be awkward right
witnessing flirtation in the workplace
creates a sense of not knowing the rules
and not knowing what's going
or maybe seeing something that you
shouldn't be seeing people who
frequently witness flirting at work and
they actually report feeling less
satisfied in their jobs and they feel
less valued by their company they're
more likely to give a negative appraisal
of the work environment and they may
even consider leaving for women this
association can be even stronger
this appears to be the case even when
people report not being bothered by the
flirting it's true even when they say
they enjoy it so for tatius environment
really could be toxic question 7 do I
need a policy on workplace relationships
you certainly need a policy on sexual
harassment and I think most HR
departments recognize that but for the
kind of consensual behavior we've been
talking about it's a little different as
much as people in HR would love to wave
a magic wand and say thou shalt not fall
in love at work it's just not realistic
emotional connection and sexuality is
who we are
I kind of want you to flip the script a
little bit I encourage HR to really
think more broadly about their role in
not necessarily stamping out office
romance because I don't think that's
realistic but how do I help create a
workplace climate and culture where
people feel respected for their
individual contributions not for their
appearance or their gender or their
personal relationships so the larger
question is how do you make sure people
are valued and respected
[Music]